
what is Bias Error ?

Bias are the simplifying assumptions made by a model to make the target function easier to learn.

Generally, linear algorithms have a high bias making them fast to learn and easier to understand but generally less flexible. In turn, they have lower predictive performance on complex problems that fail to meet the simplifying assumptions of the algorithms bias.

Low Bias: Suggests less assumptions about the form of the target function

High-Bias: Suggests more assumptions about the form of the target function

Examples of low-bias machine learning algorithms include but not limited to Decision Trees, k-Nearest Neighbors and Support Vector Machines.

Examples of high-bias machine learning algorithms include but not limted to Linear Regression, Linear Discriminant Analysis and Logistic Regression.


What is Variance Error ?

Variance is the amount that the estimate of the target function will change if different training data was used.

The target function is estimated from the training data by a machine learning algorithm, so we should expect the algorithm to have some variance. Ideally, it should not change too much from one training dataset to the next, meaning that the algorithm is good at picking out the hidden underlying mapping between the inputs and the output variables.

Machine learning algorithms that have a high variance are strongly influenced by the specifics of the training data. This means that the specifics of the training have influences the number and types of parameters used to characterize the mapping function.

what is the meaning of low variance and high variance?

Low Variance: Suggests small changes to the estimate of the target function with changes to the training dataset

High Variance: Suggests large changes to the estimate of the target function with changes to the training dataset.
Generally, nonlinear machine learning algorithms that have a lot of flexibility have a high variance. For example, decision trees have a high variance, that is even higher if the trees are not pruned before use.

Examples of low-variance machine learning algorithms include: Linear Regression, Linear Discriminant Analysis and Logistic Regression.

Examples of high-variance machine learning algorithms include: Decision Trees, k-Nearest Neighbors and Support Vector Machines.