
Things you can do about that missing data:

Listwise Deletion: Delete all data from any participant with 
missing values. If your sample is large enough, then you likely can 
drop data without substantial loss of statistical power. Be sure that 
the values are missing at random and that you are not inadvertently 
removing a class of participants

Recover the Values: You can sometimes contact the participants and ask 
them to fill out the missing values. For in-person studies, we’ve found 
having an additional check for missing values before the participant 
leaves helps

Imputation
Imputation is replacing missing values with substitute values

Educated Guessing: It sounds arbitrary and isn’t your preferred 
course of action, but you can often infer a missing value. For related 
questions, for example, like those often presented in a matrix, if the 
participant responds with all “4s”, assume that the missing value is a 4

Average Imputation: Use the average value of the responses from the 
other participants to fill in the missing value. If the average of the 
30 responses on the question is a 4.1, use a 4.1 as the imputed value. 
This choice is not always recommended because it can artificially reduce 
the variability of your data but in some cases makes sense.


Common-Point Imputation: For a rating scale, using the middle point or 
most commonly chosen value. For example, on a five-point scale, 
substitute a 3, the midpoint, or a 4, the most common value (in many cases). 
This is a bit more structured than guessing, but it’s still among the more 
risky options. Use caution unless we have good reason and data to support 
using the substitute value

Regression Substitution: You can use multiple-regression analysis to 
estimate a missing value. We use this technique to deal with missing SUS 
(system usability scale) scores. Regression substitution predicts the 
missing value from the other values. In the case of missing SUS data, 
we had enough data to create stable regression equations and predict 
the missing values automatically in the calculator

single imputation: replace missing data with worst observed value, average  
observed value or last observed value, does not have a statistical basis,
but used many times becuase of its simplicity and when data is data has MCAR

Multiple Imputation: Multiple imputation has been shown to be a valid 
general method for handling missing dataThe most sophisticated and, 
currently, most popular approach is to take the regression idea further 
and take advantage of correlations between responses. In multiple imputation, 
software creates plausible values based on the correlations for the missing data 
and then averages the simulated datasets by incorporating random errors 
in your predictions. It is one of a number of examples where computers 
continue to change the statistical landscape. Most statistical packages 
like SPSS come with a multiple-imputation feature